This section corresponds to transaction [ITI-127] of the IHE IT Infrastructure Technical Framework. Transaction [ITI-127] is used by the Claims Requestor and Claims Manager Actors. The Cancel Claim [ITI-127] transaction is used to cancel a claim for a patient.

### 2:3.127.1 Scope

This transaction is used by the Claims Requestor to cancel a claim for a patient.  The request is received by the Claims Manager.  The Claims Manager processes the request and returns a response with the status of the request.

### 2:3.127.2 Actors Roles

**Table 2:3.127.2-1: Actor Roles**

|Actor | Role |
|-------------------+--------------------------|
| [Claims Requestor](volume-1.html#claims-requestor)    | Sends the cancel request to the Claims Manager. |
| [Claims Manager](volume-1.html#claims-manager) | Receives and processes the request and returns a response to the Claims Requestor |
{:.grid .table-striped}

### 2:3.127.3 Referenced Standards

**FHIR-R4** [HL7 FHIR Release 4.0]({{site.data.fhir.path}})

### 2:3.127.4 Messages

<figure>
{%include ITI-127-seq.svg%}
<figcaption id="f2.3.127.4-1"><b>Figure 2:3.127.4-1: Interaction Diagram</b></figcaption>
</figure>
<br clear="all">

#### 2:3.127.4.1 Cancel Claim Request Message

This message uses the HTTP POST method on the target Claims Manager endpoint that is a [FAIS Claim $cancel operation](OperationDefinition-IHE.FAIS.Claim.Cancel.html).
It is sent from a Claims Requestor.

##### 2:3.127.4.1.1 Trigger Events

When a Claims Requestor needs to cancel a claim for a Patient to the Claims Manager, it submits the Cancel Claim Message.

##### 2:3.127.4.1.2 Message Semantics

The Claims Requestor invokes the [FAIS Claim $cancel operation](OperationDefinition-IHE.FAIS.Claim.Cancel.html) on the Claims Manager.  The operation is invoked by submitting an HTTP POST request to the Claims Manager at the path:

```
POST [base]/Claim/<resourceId>/$cancel
```

Where <resourceId> is the resource id of the claim being cancelled.

The HTTP body MAY include a FHIR Parameters resource with the reason set to the reason for the cancellation.


##### 2:3.127.4.1.3 Expected Actions

The Claims Manager SHALL process the cancellation and respond as per <{{site.data.fhir.path}}operations.html#response>, and if successful, with an `HTTP 200` (OK) and a [Cancel Claim Response Message](#enroll-response).

The Claims Manager SHALL update the requested Claims resource as defined by internal business rules.

<a name="enroll-response"></a>

#### 2:3.127.4.2 Cancel Claim Response Message

##### 2:3.127.4.2.1 Trigger Events

The Claims Manager has a response or errors to report to the Claims Requestor.  This MAY include a queued response.

##### 2:3.127.4.2.2 Message Semantics

The Cancel Claim Response conforms to the [FAIS ClaimResponse profile](StructureDefinition-IHE.FAIS.ClaimResponse.html) and is sent from the Claims Manager to the Claims Requestor.  If the disposition of the claim can't be handled synchronously, then the `outcome` element SHALL be set to `queued` and ClaimResponse SHALL include an `id` and persist on the Claims Manager so that the [ITI-129 Track Claim](ITI-129.html) transaction can be used to get updates on the response.

##### 2:3.127.4.2.3 Expected Actions

How the Claims Requestor processes the response is determined by the implementation and beyond the scope of this profile. 

### 2:3.127.5 CapabilityStatement Resource

Server implementing this transaction SHALL provide a CapabilityStatement Resource as described in ITI TF-2x: Appendix Z.3 indicating the transaction has been implemented.

- Requirements CapabilityStatement for [Claims Requestor](CapabilityStatement-IHE.FAIS.ClaimsRequestor.html)
- Requirements CapabilityStatement for [Claims Manager](CapabilityStatement-IHE.FAIS.ClaimsManager.html)

### 2:3.127.6 Security Considerations

See [FAIS Security Considerations](volume-1.html#security-considerations)

#### 2:3.127.6.1 Security Audit Considerations

Note that the same audit message is recorded by both the Claims Requestor and Claims Manager.  The difference being the Audit Source element.  Both sides record to show consistency between the message sent by the Claims Requestor and the action taken at the Claims Manager.

The actors involved SHALL record audit events according to the [Audit Event for Cancel Claim Transaction](StructureDefinition-IHE.FAIS.Audit.Claim.Cancel.html).  See [Audit Example for Cancel Claim from the Claims Requestor](AuditEvent-ex-AuditFAISCancelClaim.html).
